Types of destinations

A tourist destination is an area attracting and offering accommodation and catering services to tourists, thus representing the major source of income.
A tourist destination can either be a city or a village or a built-on-purpose attraction. Tourist destinations can be classified as follows.

Beach/coastal
Seaside areas are popular types of tourist destinations.
Seashore tourism is chosen by both domestic and
international tourists who are likely to find seaside
areas within their homeland or travel a long way to
reach a beach area.
These areas can be found in different places such as:
islands, resorts and secluded spots.

Islands
Islands are land areas surrounded by water. They have
long coastline and pristine sea water.
Some beaches are tropical, with soft sands and warm
waters. Others may feature mild climates, pebbled
beaches, cliffs and rock faces.
Some examples of touristic islands are: Bali, the
Carribeans, the Maldives, the Galapagos and many
others around the world.

Resorts
Resorts are categorized according to different purposes.
Purpose-built resorts are usually built around a theme. Theme parks, amusement parks, aquariums etc, are all examples of purpose-built attractions, Main features include accommodation, catering provisions, activities and amenities, Sometimes they are aimed at specific tourist types, like Disneyland.
An integrated resort (IR) is a major resort property that includes a hotel with a casino, together with convention facilities, entertainment shows, theme parks, luxury retail and fine dining.
We define Eco-resorts a tourist resort whose facilities are intended to have a minimal impact on the local environment.

Beach resorts
Beach resorts are areas that are specially built for
tourism. They consist of beach areas, hotels, bars and
restaurants and related entertainment venues.
A resort hotel caters for tourists within a limited
area. The area may include a private beach, bars,
restaurants, accommodation and entertainment
facilities. Some examples of beach resorts are: Palma
de Majorca (Spain), Crete (Greece), Bali (Indonesia).
These types of destinations are sometimes renowned
for their negative social impacts.

Ski resorts - Winter sports areas
A ski resort is a resort developed for skiing.
snowboarding, and other winter sports.
Travellers usually reach these destinations for a range of winter sport activities.
Popular winter sports activities include:
* Skiing
* Sledging
* Snowmobiling
* Husky riding
* Snow walking
* Snowboarding
* Ice-skating

Rural/Natural areas
Natural areas are popular types of tourist destinations too. They can be found in mountains, forests and countryside areas.

Mountain areas
Mountain areas are very popular. According to the different season, altitude and weather, visitors can do many different activities in the mountains, such as mountain climbing, hiking, skiing, horse riding, quad biking and more.

Forests
Forests cover a vast area of the earth. There are many tourist facilities and resorts here. These holiday resorts feature chalets and villas in a forest area.
Rock climbing and mountain biking are mainly performed in these areas, but they also offer other leisure activities such as swimming pools and restaurants.

Countryside areas
Countryside areas, also called rural tourism areas. They feature several types of landscape such as mountain areas, lakes, hills, forests, woods, plains and fields.
Countryside offers a wide range of experiences in closer contact with nature.
Farmhouses offer accommodation along with a number of activities, from horse riding to gardening. They are also appreciated for the extensive culinary selections, often organic, they offer to visitors.

Urban areas
Towns and cities are popular destinations. Best known as
city breaks, they are easily accessible with a wide range of
transport connections, trains or flights.
Towns and cities attract many different types of tourists
as they offer attractions and activities suitable for visitors
travelling on a business trip or a family getaway.

Areas known for culture and heritage
Some tourist destinations are known for their culture and
heritage. The General Conference of UNESCO adopted on 16
November 1972 the Recommendation concerning the Protection at National
Level, of the Cultural and Natural Heritage. The Convention is aimed at preserving cultural heritage and natural heritage sites that are increasingly threatened with destruction. There are more than one thousand sites comprised under UNESCO Heritage List.

(https://whc.unesco.org/en/list/)